Original: https://eszemelyi.hu/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/eSzemelyi_Kliens_vegfelhasznaloi_nyilatkozat_v13.pdf

Belügyminisztérium
eSzemélyi Kliens
Az eSzemélyi Kliens végfelhasználói szerződése - EULA
Kiadás dátuma: 2021.03.26.
Kiadási fájlnév és verziószám: eSzemelyi_Kliens_vegfelhasznaloi_nyilatkozat_ v13.docx
A végfelhasználói szerződés által támogatott programverziók: eSzemélyi Kliens v1.6
Dokumentum információ: A mindenkor hatályos és támogatott 1.6-os verziójú eSzemélyi Kliensre kiterjed.
1	Tartalom

1	Tartalom	2
2	Bemutatkozás	2
3	Végfelhasználói Szerződés	5
4	Az Alkalmazás Használata	6
5	Szerzői Jogok	6
6	Adatkezelés és az Alkalmazás Működése	7
7	A Szerződés Megszűnése, Megszüntetése	8
8	Felelősség	9
9	Vegyes Rendelkezések	10
10	Nyílt Forráskódú Komponensek Eredeti Végfelhasználói Szerződései	11

2	Bemutatkozás
Köszönjük, hogy letöltötte és telepíti az eSzemélyi Kliens alkalmazást (a továbbiakban: alkalmazás).

Jelen dokumentum az alkalmazáshoz kapcsolódó végfelhasználói szerződés, amely tartalmazza szoftvercsomag felhasználási feltételeit, adatkezelési szabályait, szerzői jogait, frissítésekkel kapcsolatos információit és a használatára vonatkozó korlátozásokat.

Kérjük, hogy az alkalmazás telepítése, másolása és/vagy használata előtt olvassa el figyelmesen az alábbi feltételeket, és amennyiben egyetért, fogadja el.
Amennyiben az alkalmazás végfelhasználói nyilatkozatával nem ért egyet és a telepítés során nem fogadja el a végfelhasználói szerződés (EULA) feltételeit, úgy nem jogosult az alkalmazás telepítésére, használatára.

Az alkalmazás elidegeníthetetlen részét képező „Kártyakezelő Alkalmazás komponens” az eSzemélyi Kliens szoftvercsomag alapvető része, ami lehetővé teszi a lenti funkciók és műveletek elvégzését a PC-s környezetben.

Az eSzemélyi Kliens egy kártyakezelő alkalmazás, amely az elektronikus személyazonosító igazolvány (a továbbiakban: eSzemélyi) folyamatainak támogatását hivatott biztosítani. Az alkalmazás célja, hogy biztosítsa a biztonságos kommunikációt az eSzemélyi és a felhasználó által használt alkalmazások között. 

Az alkalmazás használatához a felhasználónak az alábbi eszközökkel szükséges rendelkeznie:
1.	2016. január 1-jét követően kiállított, tároló elemmel rendelkező eSzemélyi,
2.	támogatott kártyaolvasó, amellyel kapcsolatban további információk elérhetőek a <https://eszemelyi.hu/kartyaolvaso/kartyaolvaso_altalanos_informaciok> weboldalon,
3.	támogatott operációs rendszer, amellyel kapcsolatban további információk elérhetőek a <https://eszemelyi.hu/letoltesek> weboldalon.
A tároló elemet is tartalmazó megújult eSzemélyi az alábbi funkciókkal rendelkezik:
1.	Elektronikus úti okmány funkció (ePASS)
Az okmány ezen funkciója a 2000-2015 között kiállított személyazonosító igazolványok által is gyakorolható utazási jogot magasabb technikai és biztonsági szinten valósítja meg. Ez a funkció tehát nem kiváltja az útlevelet, hanem - az elektronikus térben - annak a biztonsági szintjére emeli a személyazonosító igazolványt.
2016. január 1-jétől az eSzemélyi segítségével a reptéri határátlépések során a zsilipkapus beléptető rendszereket is használhatja az állampolgár, amennyiben az okmány igénylésekor kérte az ujjnyomat rögzítését a tároló elemen. 
2.	Elektronikus azonosítási funkció (eID)
Az eID (elektronikus azonosítás) kártyafunkció más azonosítási rendszernél magasabb hatásfokkal és biztonsági szinten valósítja meg az elektronikus kormányzati és e-közigazgatási rendszerek igénybevételéhez szükséges elektronikus azonosítás/hitelesítés funkciókat. 
3.	Elektronikus aláírás funkció (eSIGN)
Az eSIGN kártyafunkció alkalmas elektronikus dokumentum minősített elektronikus aláírással történő ellátására, teljes bizonyító erejű magánokirat elektronikus elkészítésére. Az elektronikus aláírás funkció a polgár által szabadon választható funkció, az okmány igénylésekor vagy akár azt követően, az okmány érvényességi ideje alatt bármikor lehetősége van a szolgáltatás igénylésére.
A dokumentumokat az ingyenesen telepíthető Kormányzati Elektronikus Aláíró és Aláírás-ellenőrző Szoftverrel (KEAASZ) lehet aláírni, időbélyegezni, valamint ellenőrizni az elektronikus aláírások érvényességét. A KEAASZ és a telepítési, felhasználói útmutatója a <https://eszemelyi.hu/letoltesek> weboldalon érhető el.
4.	Közösségi közlekedési funkció (szolgáltatásazonosító)
A szolgáltatásazonosító segítségével különböző szolgáltatások (pl. jegy- és bérletvásárlás, illetve ezek érvényesítése egyes közlekedési szolgáltatóknál) vehetőek igénybe eSzemélyi okmánnyal. 

Az alkalmazás az alábbi legfontosabb feladatokat látja el:
a)	Az eSzemélyihez tartozó PIN kódok kezelése 
i.	CAN szám: az eSzemélyi arcképet tartalmazó oldalának középső részén található 6 számjegyből álló számsor. 
ii.	e-Azonosítás aktiváló PIN: az eSzemélyihez tartozó aktiváló PIN kód, amely az eSzemélyihez tartozó PIN kód létrehozásához szükséges 5 számjegyből álló aktiváló adat. Az e-Azonosítás aktiváló PIN kódot az okmány igénylésekor megkapott borítékban található „Személyazonosító igazolvány kód kártya” tartalmazza. 
iii.	e-Azonosítás PIN: az eSzemélyihez tartozó PIN kód, amely az okmány elektronikus úton történő használatához szükséges, az okmány birtokosának hozzáférési jogosultságát ellenőrző adat, amely az állampolgár által tetszőlegesen választott 6 számjegyből áll. 
iv.	e-Aláírás aktiváló PIN: az elektronikus aláíráshoz tartozó aktiváló PIN kód, amely az elektronikus aláíráshoz tartozó PIN kód létrehozásához szükséges 5 számjegyből álló aktiváló adat. Az e-Aláírás aktiváló PIN kódot az e-aláírás igénylésekor megkapott borítékban található „Elektronikus aláírás kód kártya” tartalmazza. 
v.	e-Aláírás PIN: Az elektronikus aláíráshoz tartozó PIN kód, amely az elektronikus aláírás létrehozásához szükséges, az aláíró hozzáférési jogosultságát ellenőrző adat, amely az állampolgár által választott, tetszőleges 7 számjegyből áll. 
vi.	PUK kód: Az eSzemélyihez és az elektronikus aláíráshoz tartozó PIN kód többszöri sikertelen megadása után használható feloldóadat, amely véletlenszerűen generált 10 számjegyből áll. Azonos PUK kód tartozik az eSzemélyihez tartozó PIN kód és az elektronikus aláíráshoz tartozó PIN kód cseréjéhez.
b)	Lehetővé teszi az eSzemélyi e-Azonosítás és e-Aláírás funkcióinak aktiválását, valamint azok PC-s környezetben történő elérhetőségét különféle alkalmazások számára,
c)	Lehetővé teszi az e-Azonosítás aktiváló PIN és az e-Aláírás aktiváló PIN cseréjét, aktiválást követően az e-Azonosítás PIN és e-Aláírás PIN cseréjét,
d)	Segítségével megjeleníthetők a csatlakoztatott kártyaolvasóval és az eSzemélyi státuszával kapcsolatos információk,
e)	Lehetővé teszi az e-Aláíráshoz tartozó tanúsítvány kiolvasását, megjelenítését. Windows operációs rendszerben regisztrálja azt a tanúsítványtárba. Az e-Aláírás funkció használata során az aláírás értékét és a tanúsítványt továbbítja a felettes alkalmazásnak.
Az alkalmazással kapcsolatban a <https://eszemelyi.hu/> weboldalon tájékozódhat. Az eSzemélyi Kliens alkalmazással felmerült bármilyen probléma esetén kérem, vegye fel a kapcsolatot a Kormányzati Ügyfélvonal munkatársaival (telefon: 1818, e-mail: 1818@1818.hu).  

Frissítések
A frissített alkalmazás felváltja és/vagy kiegészíti azt a terméket, amely a frissítés alapjául szolgált. Az alkalmazás értesíti a felhasználót az elérhető frissítések telepítésének lehetőségéről.
a)	Amennyiben az „Induláskor keressen frissítéseket” beállítás engedélyezve van, a program minden induláskor megpróbál frissítéseket keresni az interneten.
b)	Ezt a felhasználó is megteheti a „Frissítések ellenőrzése” gombra kattintva, vagy a menüből.
c)	Ha a program talál egy frissítést, megjelenik egy dialógus ablak, amin a felhasználó eldöntheti, hogy szeretné-e telepíteni az adott frissítést.
d)	A sikeres frissítést követően, az eredményül kapott frissített terméket csak a jelen végfelhasználói nyilatkozat előírásainak megfelelően használhatja. A kiadott frissítéseket a felhasználónak kell telepítenie a hivatalos kiadást követően.
A Szolgáltató és a szerzői jog jogosultja kizár minden felelősséget, ami a régebbi verziók használatából ere

Több Eszközön Történő Használat
A Felhasználó a több eszközön (számítógépen/laptopon) való alkalmazás-használat, nem kizárólagos és nem átruházható jogával rendelkezik az alkalmazásra vonatkozóan.
Elektronikusan nem másolhatja az alkalmazást egyik készülékről a másikra semmilyen hálózaton keresztül, azonban az alkalmazás több eszközre feltelepíthető a Belügyminisztérium által kiadott telepítési állományt használva.

3	Végfelhasználói Szerződés
A jelen Végfelhasználói szerződés (a továbbiakban “Szerződés”) jogilag kötelező megállapodás a jelen szerződés tárgyát képező szoftver szolgáltatásait igénybe vevő személy (a továbbiakban “Felhasználó”) és a Belügyminisztérium (Székhely: 1051 Budapest, József Attila utca 2-4., adószám: 15311605-2-41, PIR/KIR azonosító: 311607), a továbbiakban “Szolgáltató”) között a eSzemélyi Kliens alkalmazás (a továbbiakban “alkalmazás”) tárgyában. Az alkalmazás letöltésével, telepítésével, illetve bármely egyéb módon történő használatával (a továbbiakban: “Használat”) a Felhasználó elfogadja és magára nézve kötelezőnek ismeri el a jelen Szerződés feltételeit.

1.	Az alkalmazás telepítésével, másolásával, illetve bármilyen egyéb módon történő használatával a Felhasználó elismeri, hogy a jelen Szerződésben foglaltakat elolvasta és tudomásul vette, valamint annak feltételeit kötelező érvénnyel elfogadja.

2.	Az alkalmazás elsődleges célja, hogy az elektronikus személyazonosító igazolvány (a továbbiakban: eSzemélyi) folyamatainak támogatásával biztosítsa a biztonságos kommunikációt az eSzemélyi és a Felhasználó által használt alkalmazások között.

3.	A Szolgáltató kifejezetten rögzíti, hogy jelen Szerződés alapján a Felhasználó nem szerzi meg az alkamazás tulajdonjogát, kizárólag a Szerződésben foglalt felhasználási jogosultságok illetik meg.

4	Az Alkalmazás Használata
4.	Az alkalmazás használatával kizárólag a Felhasználó és a Szolgáltató között keletkeztet jogviszonyt. Az alkalmazással és a szolgáltatással összefüggésben keletkezett bárminemű igényét a Felhasználó kizárólag közvetlenül a Szolgáltatóval szemben jogosult érvényesíteni.

5.	Az alkalmazás használatához internetes adatkapcsolatra is szükség lehet, amely költséget generálhat. Az adatkapcsolat során felmerülő esetleges költségeket kizárólag Felhasználó viseli.

5	Szerzői Jogok
6.	Jelen Szerződés alapján a Felhasználó nem kizárólagos, Magyarország területére kiterjedő, át nem ruházható, időben korlátozott, jelen Szerződés megszűnéséig tartó felhasználási jogot szerez az alkalmazás saját célokra történő, használatára bármely, a Felhasználó tulajdonában vagy használatában lévő eszközön. 
Ennek keretében Felhasználó jogosulttá válik az alkalmazás letöltésére, telepítésére és saját célra történő használatára. 

7.	A felhasználási engedély nem terjed ki az alkalmazásnak a Felhasználó által nem birtokolt vagy használt eszközre történő telepítésére, és nem terjed ki az alkalmazás olyan hálózati hozzáférhetővé tételére, amely több eszköz általi egyidejű használatot tenne lehetővé. 

A felhasználási engedély az alkalmazás rendeltetésszerű használatához szükséges terjedelemre vonatkozik (ideértve különösen a telepítés és a megjelenítés során elengedhetetlenül szükséges többszörözést). 

A felhasználási engedély nem terjed ki az alkamazás terjesztésére, átdolgozására és műpéldányainak anyagi hordozón való többszörözésére, kölcsönzésére, lízingelésére, értékesítésére, átruházására, további felhasználási engedély biztosítására, az alkamazás másolására (a jelen Szerződésben kifejezetten engedélyezett eseteken túlmenően). A Felhasználó nem jogosult az alkamazás módosítására, visszafejtésére, visszafordítására, részekre fejtésére, a forráskód bármilyen visszanyerésére.

8.	Jelen Szerződés feltételei irányadók az alkalmazás bármely frissítésére, új verzió kiadására, valamint bármely kiegészítőre, kivéve, ha az adott frissítésre külön felhasználási feltételek kerülnek kibocsátásra. 

9.	Az alkalmazás tekintetében a Szolgáltató jelen Szerződés alapján nem nyújt karbantartást vagy támogatást. A karbantartással, illetve támogatással kapcsolatosan a Szolgáltatót semmilyen kötelezettség vagy felelősség nem terheli.

10.	Az alkalmazásban, valamint annak felületén megjelenített tartalom (ideértve többek közt valamennyi, az alkamazásban elérhető fényképet, grafikát és egyéb anyagokat, az alkalmazás felületének elrendezését, szerkesztését, a használt szoftveres és egyéb megoldásokat, ötletet, megvalósítást) felhasználásának engedélyezése az ID&Trust Kft. kizárólagos joga, és az alkalmazás a rendeltetésszerű használatával járó megjelenítésen túl semmilyen egyéb formában nem használható fel vagy hasznosítható az ID&Trust Kft. előzetes írásbeli engedélye nélkül. 

11.	A Felhasználó nem jogosult a Belügyminisztérium vagy az ID&Trust Kft. kereskedelmi nevének vagy védjegyének bármilyen formában történő használatára, hasznosítására.

12.	Amennyiben harmadik fél olyan követelést támaszt, miszerint az alkamazás, illetve az alkalmazás birtoklása, használata ezen harmadik fél szellemi alkotáshoz fűződő jogait sérti, úgy a ID&Trust Kft. felelős az ilyen igények kivizsgálásáért, az esetleges alapos igények teljesítéséért.
6	Adatkezelés és az Alkalmazás Működése
13.	Az alkalmazás közvetlenül személyes adatokat nem kezel és nem tárol. A kártya tároló elemében tárolható személyes adatok kezelésére az alkalmazás e-Azonosítás funkció használata során abban az esetben kerül sor, amikor egy arra jogosult szerv azok kiolvasását/felírását kezdeményezi. A folyamat során az alkalmazás az előzetesen az eID szerver által megvizsgált adat olvasási/írási kérelmet megjeleníti a felhasználó számára, amelyben szerepel a szolgáltató (szerv) neve és hozzáférés-igényei. A szolgáltató által kezdeményezett adatkiolvasás, vagy -írás kizárólag az eSzemélyi birtokosának beleegyezését követően (e-Azonosítás PIN megadásával) történik. Az alkalmazás a PIN kódot felhasználva a kártyaolvasón keresztül felépíti a kártyával a titkosított rádiós csatornát, s elküldi a kártyának a jóváhagyott műveletek listáját. Ezt a kártya a tranzakció idejéig megjegyzi. Sikeres csatorna-felépítés esetén az alkalmazás átadja a vezérlést az eID szerver számára, s innentől csak „közvetítő” szerepet tölt be. A szerver a szolgáltató nevében azonosítja magát a kártya felé. Sikeres azonosítás után az eID szerver ellenőrzi az okmány hitelességét is. Ezt követően végrehajtja a kapott kérelem alapján indokolt olvasási/írási műveleteket. A kártya csak olyan műveletek végrehajtását engedélyezi, amelyekre a szolgáltatónak joga van és a felhasználó a beleegyezését adta. Az eID szerver a kiolvasott adatok alapján lekérdezi az igazolvány érvényességi státuszát a központi okmánynyilvántartásból, amely visszaadja az adott okmány érvényességére vonatkozó státuszt. Az eID szerver jelzi a művelet sikeres befejeztét az alkalmazás felé és átadja a szolgáltatónak visszaküldendő aláírt, jellemzően titkosított válasz azon részét, amelyet a szolgáltató ilyen módon kért. Az alkalmazás a kapott választ továbbítja a kérést intéző alkalmazásnak. A művelet befejezése után az alkalmazás a másodlagosan kezelt, megjelenített adatokat nem tárolja, arról naplózási tevékenységet nem folytat

Azon adatok, amelyek az eID szerver közreműködése nélkül is kiolvashatók az okmányból, titkosítás nélkül adhatók vissza: a kártyaprofil verziója, a PIN/PUK kódok státusza. Minden egyéb adat titkosított formában kerül visszaadásra.
Az alkalmazás az e-Aláírás funkció használata során az aláírás értékét és a tanúsítványt továbbítja a felettes alkalmazásnak, továbbá lehetővé teszi az e-Aláíráshoz tartozó tanúsítvány kiolvasását, megjelenítését. Windows operációs rendszerben regisztrálja azt a tanúsítványtárba.
Az eSzemlélyi Kliens az e-Útiokmány funkció használata során megjeleníti az okmányról vizuálisan megismerhető adatokat. Ezen adatok szabadon kiolvashatóak az okmányról PACE vagy BAC protokoll segítségével a CAN (Card Access Number) megadását követően.

Az alkalmazás használata során kizárólag a 13. pontban leírtakon felül a következő felhasználói adatok kerülnek átadásra az eID szerver számára:
 
·	a Felhasználó által használt operációs rendszer típusa és verziója,
·	a Felhasználó által használt alkalmazás verziószáma.
·	a Felhasználó által használt kártyaolvasó típusa.
.
14.	Az alkalmazás gyorsabb futása és annak kényelmesebb használata érdekében az alkalmazás a felhasználó választása szerint alkalmas egy darab CAN szám tárolására. Ilyenkor a legutoljára megadott CAN szám kerül megjegyzésre. A beállítás engedélyezésével a CAN számot mindaddig tárolja az alkalmazás, amíg a felhasználó egy másik, különböző CAN számmal rendelkező kártyát nem helyez a kártyaolvasóba. Ez esetben - és amennyiben a beütött CAN szám helyes volt - a CAN szám újra bekérésre, majd eltárolásra kerül. 

7	A Szerződés Megszűnése, Megszüntetése
15.	A Szolgáltató jogosult a Szerződést azonnali hatállyal felmondani, amennyiben Felhasználó megsérti a Szerződésben foglaltakat. A Szolgáltató felmondása esetén a Felhasználó köteles azonnal felhagyni az alkamazás használatával, és a felmondást követően haladéktalanul eltávolítani az alkamazást az eszközről.

16.	Amennyiben a Felhasználó nem a Szolgáltató felmondása miatt hagy fel az alkalmazás használatával, és az alkamazást eltávolítja az eszközről, úgy az a Szerződés Felhasználó általi felmondásának minősül.
17.	A Szolgáltató fenntartja a jogot, hogy az alkalmazás kivezetéséről döntsön, az alkalmazás szolgáltatásával bármikor felhagyjon, vagy a felhasználási jogot korlátozza, visszavonja az irányadó jogszabályi rendelkezések és szabályzatok figyelembe vételével, a felhasználók külön értesítése nélkül; ebben az esetben a Szolgáltatót felelősség nem terheli, ha az irányadó jogszabályoknak és szabályzatoknak megfelelően járt el.

18.	A Felhasználó tudomásul veszi, hogy - tekintettel arra is, hogy az alkalmazás ingyenesen kerül elérhetővé tételre - az alkalmazás „as is”, illetve „as available” alapú, így azt Felhasználó saját felelősségére használja.

8	Felelősség
19.	Felhasználó tudomásul veszi, hogy az alkalmazás „beállítások” funkciójában elérhető jelszó mentés használatából eredő kárért, amely az eszköz elvesztése vagy illetéktelenek általi bármilyen használatból ered, a Szolgáltató semmilyen felelősséget nem vállal.

20.	A szándékosan, súlyos gondatlansággal, vagy bűncselekménnyel okozott, továbbá az életet, testi épséget, egészséget megkárosító szerződésszegésért való felelősségen túlmenően Szolgáltató nem vállal felelősséget az alkamazás használatával összefüggésben felmerült károkért, így különösen bármiféle bevétel- vagy nyereségkiesésért, meghiúsult értékesítési lehetőségért, adatvesztésért, üzleti forgalom kieséséért, vagy bármiféle speciális, közvetlen vagy közvetett kárért, függetlenül a károkozás mikéntjétől, még abban az esetben sem, ha a Szolgáltatót előzőleg értesítették az ilyen kár bekövetkeztének lehetőségéről. 

21.	A Szolgáltató továbbá nem vállal felelősséget az alkamazás helyes vagy helytelen használata következtében, vagy vis maior esemény folytán felmerült kárért. 

22.	A Szolgáltató nem vállal felelősséget a Felhasználónak az alklamazás hozzáférésének esetleges megszűnéséért vagy megszüntetéséért, az abból eredő károkért. 

23.	A Szolgáltató nem szavatolja, hogy (a) az alkalmazás maradéktalanul kielégíti a Felhasználó speciális igényeit, illetve együttműködésre képes a Felhasználó egyéb szoftvereivel (b) az alkalmazás megszakítás nélkül, biztonságosan, hibamentesen működik, (c) az alkamazás használatának eredményeképp létrejött adatok megbízhatóak és minden esetben pontosak, (d) az alkalmazás vagy a Szolgáltató által ezzel kapcsolatban nyújtott bármely egyéb szolgáltatás megfelel a felhasználói elvárásoknak, (e) az alkalmazásban jelentkező hibák azonnal kijavításra kerülnek. Semmilyen, a Szolgáltató vagy annak képviselője által adott szóbeli tájékoztatás nem teremt ettől eltérő, ezt meghaladó felelősségvállalást a Szolgáltató részéről. 

24.	A Szolgáltató nem vállal felelősséget semmilyen kárért, amelyek az alábbiak következtében merülnek fel: (a) az alkamazás nem rendeltetésszerű használata, (b) a Felhasználó adataihoz való jogosulatlan hozzáférés, illetve azok jogosulatlan módosítása, (c) harmadik személy közrehatása az alkalmazásra, illetve (d) bármilyen más károkozó magatartás ill. esemény.

9	Vegyes Rendelkezések 
25.	Ha alkalmazás és bármilyen ezzel kapcsolatos termékfrissítés nem „jelenlegi állapotában”, nem a Szolgáltató által publikált letöltési helyről, megváltoztatott vagy módosított formában kerül a Felhasználóhoz, a Szolgáltató semmilyen garanciát nem vállal érte, sem a használatából eredő következményekért. 
a)	A Szolgáltató az alkalmazás mindenkori aktuális verziójának letöltésére, és a kapcsolódó frissítések elérhetőségére a honlapján biztosítja az ingyenes hozzáférést („https://eszemelyi.hu/letoltesek”).
b)	A Szolgáltató nem vállal garanciát arra, hogy az alkalmazás a használat során a többi szoftverrel vagy hardvereszközzel megfelelően működik.
A Szolgáltató nem vállal továbbá felelősséget abban az esetben, ha a szoftver kárt tesz a Felhasználó számítógépében, eszközében.

26.	A Felhasználó elfogadja, hogy az alkalmazás egyes komponensei nyílt forráskódú szoftvertermékek (különösen, de nem kizárólagosan: GNU Lesser General Public License Version 2.1, or 2.1 +; Qt Solutions; OpenSSL License / SSLeay License; Fervor License; JXCore Licence; PCSC Lite license; zf_log License), tudomásul veszi a nyílt forráskódú termékek különleges jogállását, és a tényt, hogy ezen harmadik személy jogtulajdonosok a licencfeltételeiket egyoldalúan módosíthatják. Nyílt forráskódú komponensek:
a)	GNU Lesser General Public License Version 2.1, or 2.1 + (<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/lgpl-2.1.html>)
b)	Qt Solutions (<http://www.qt-project.org/legal>)
c)	OpenSSL License / SSLeay License (<http://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>)
d)	Fervor License (<https://github.com/pypt/fervor/blob/master/LICENSE>)
e)	zf_log License (<https://github.com/wonder-mice/zf_log/blob/master/LICENSE>)

27.	A Szolgáltató fenntartja a jogot, hogy az alkalmazásra vonatkozó felhasználási feltételeket rendszeresen felülvizsgálja, és azokat módosítsa. A felhasználási feltételek megváltozásáról a <https://eszemelyi.hu/letoltesek> webfelületen, az alkalmazás következő alkalommal történő használatakor értesíti a Felhasználót; Felhasználó az alkalmazás további használatával elfogadja a Szerződés módosítását.

28.	Amennyiben a Szerződés egy vagy több rendelkezése bármely okból érvénytelennek tekintendő, az ilyen érvénytelenség nem érinti a Szerződés egyéb rendelkezéseit. 

29.	Az alkalmazásra a magyar jog rendelkezései irányadók. 

30.	A Szerződés magyar nyelven jött létre. Felhasználó tudomásul veszi, hogy amennyiben a Szolgáltató a Szerződés magyar nyelvű változatát más nyelvre is lefordíttatta, azt csak a felhasználók kényelme érdekében tette, és ebben az esetben is a magyar nyelvű változat az irányadó a Felhasználó és a Szolgáltató közötti jogviszonyra. Amennyiben a magyar nyelvű Szerződés és annak bármilyen más nyelvű változata között ellentmondás van, a magyar nyelvű változat az irányadó.

10	Nyílt Forráskódú Komponensek Eredeti Végfelhasználói Szerződései
================================================================================
GNU Lesser General Public License Version 2.1, or 2.1 + in QT 5.5.x:

GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

The Qt Toolkit is Copyright (C) 2015 The Qt Company Ltd.
Contact: http://www.qt.io/licensing/

You may use, distribute and copy the Qt GUI Toolkit under the terms of
GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1, which is displayed below.

GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
Version 2.1, February 1999

Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL.  It also counts as the successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence the version number 2.1.]

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.

This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some specially designated software packages--typically libraries--of the Free Software Foundation and other authors who decide to use it.  You can use it too, but we suggest you first think carefully about whether this license or the ordinary General Public License is the better strategy to use in any particular case, based on the explanations below.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use, not price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish); that you receive source code or can get it if you want it; that you can change the software and use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you are informed that you can do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these rights.  These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for
you if you distribute copies of the library or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code.  If you link other code with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients, so that they can relink them with the library after making changes to the library and recompiling it.  And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the library, and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.

To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that there is no warranty for the free library.  Also, if the library is modified by someone else and passed on, the recipients should know
that what they have is not the original version, so that the original author's reputation will not be affected by problems that might be introduced by others.

Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of any free program.  We wish to make sure that a company cannot effectively restrict the users of a free program by obtaining a
restrictive license from a patent holder.  Therefore, we insist that any patent license obtained for a version of the library must be consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this license.

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU General Public License.  This license, the GNU Lesser General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries, and
is quite different from the ordinary General Public License.  We use this license for certain libraries in order to permit linking those libraries into non-free programs.

When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using a shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a combined work, a derivative of the original library.  The ordinary
General Public License therefore permits such linking only if the entire combination fits its criteria of freedom.  The Lesser General Public License permits more lax criteria for linking other code with
the library.

We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it does Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General Public License.  It also provides other free software developers Less of an advantage over competing non-free programs.  These disadvantages are the reason we use the ordinary General Public License for many libraries.  However, the Lesser license provides advantages in certain special circumstances.

For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to encourage the widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes a de-facto standard.  To achieve this, non-free programs must be
allowed to use the library.  A more frequent case is that a free library does the same job as widely used non-free libraries.  In this case, there is little to gain by limiting the free library to free software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free programs enables a greater number of people to use a large body of free software.  For example, permission to use the GNU C Library in
non-free programs enables many more people to use the whole GNU operating system, as well as its variant, the GNU/Linux operating system.

Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the users' freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is linked with the Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run
that program using a modified version of the Library.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification follow.  Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library".  The former contains code derived from the library, whereas the latter must be combined with the library in order to run.

GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Lesser General Public License (also called "this License").
Each licensee is addressed as "you".

A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.

The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has been distributed under these terms.  A "work based on the Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under
copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated straightforwardly into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is
included without limitation in the term "modification".)

"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making modifications to it.  For a library, complete source code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the library.

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from
such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for writing it).  Whether that is true depends on what the Library does
and what the program that uses the Library does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an
appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the
Library.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.

d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility
is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of
its purpose remains meaningful.

(For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the application.  Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by this function must be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this License.

3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library.  To do this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so
that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License.  (If a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.)  Do not make any other change in these notices.

Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.

This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library into a program that is not a library.

4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany
it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.

If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to
distribute the source code, even though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library".  Such a
work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library".  The executable is therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.

When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a
derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library.  The threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.

If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative work.  (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)

Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.

6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work
under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.

You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License.  You must supply a copy of this License.  If the work
during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.  Also, you must do one of these things:

a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing the modified Library.  (It is understood that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application to use the modified definitions.)

b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the Library.  A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a copy of the library already present on the user's computer system, rather than copying library functions into the executable, and (2) will operate properly with a modified version of the library, if the user installs one, as long as the modified version is interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.

d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials from the same place.

e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.

For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from it.  However, as a special exception,
the materials to be distributed need not include anything that is
normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the executable.

It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system.  Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in an executable that you distribute.

7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined
library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two things:

a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities.  This must be distributed under the terms of the Sections above.

b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or
distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.  However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the Library or works based on it.

10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties with this License.

11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.  For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software distribution system which is implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a consequence of the rest of this License.

12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add
an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this License.

13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version,
but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Library specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version", you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.  If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any version ever published by
the Free Software Foundation.

14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status
of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

NO WARRANTY

15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE LIBRARY IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE
LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can redistribute and change.  You can do so by permitting redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public License).

To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library.  It is safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

one line to give the library's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.

<signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1990
Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!

The Qt Company Qt LGPL Exception version 1.1

As an additional permission to the GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1, the object code form of a "work that uses the Library" may incorporate material from a header file that is part of the Library.  You may distribute such object code under terms of your choice, provided that:
(i)   the header files of the Library have not been modified; and
(ii)  the incorporated material is limited to numerical parameters, data structure layouts, accessors, macros, inline functions and templates; and
(iii) you comply with the terms of Section 6 of the GNU Lesser General
Public License version 2.1.

Moreover, you may apply this exception to a modified version of the Library, provided that such modification does not involve copying material from the Library into the modified Library's header files unless such material is limited to (i) numerical parameters; (ii) data structure layouts;
(iii) accessors; and (iv) small macros, templates and inline functions of five lines or less in length.

Furthermore, you are not required to apply this additional permission to a modified version of the Library.

OpenSSL License / SSLeay License in OpenSSL 1.0.2u:
LICENSE ISSUES
  ==============

  The OpenSSL toolkit stays under a double license, i.e. both the conditions of
  the OpenSSL License and the original SSLeay license apply to the toolkit.
  See below for the actual license texts.

  OpenSSL License
  ---------------

/* ====================================================================
 * Copyright (c) 1998-2019 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 *
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 *
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
 *    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
 *    distribution.
 *
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
 *    software must display the following acknowledgment:
 *    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
 *    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
 *
 * 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
 *    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
 *    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
 *    openssl-core@openssl.org.
 *
 * 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
 *    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
 *    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
 *
 * 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
 *    acknowledgment:
 *    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
 *    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
 * EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
 * PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
 * ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
 * SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
 * NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
 * LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
 * STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
 * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
 * OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
 * ====================================================================
 *
 * This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young
 * (eay@cryptsoft.com).  This product includes software written by Tim
 * Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).
 *
 */

 Original SSLeay License
 -----------------------

/* Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)
 * All rights reserved.
 *
 * This package is an SSL implementation written
 * by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).
 * The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL.
 *
 * This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as
 * the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions
 * apply to all code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA,
 * lhash, DES, etc., code; not just the SSL code.  The SSL documentation
 * included with this distribution is covered by the same copyright terms
 * except that the holder is Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).
 *
 * Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in
 * the code are not to be removed.
 * If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given attribution
 * as the author of the parts of the library used.
 * This can be in the form of a textual message at program startup or
 * in documentation (online or textual) provided with the package.
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
 *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
 *    must display the following acknowledgement:
 *    "This product includes cryptographic software written by
 *     Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)"
 *    The word 'cryptographic' can be left out if the rouines from the library
 *    being used are not cryptographic related :-).
 * 4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from
 *    the apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement:
 *    "This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND
 * ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
 * ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
 * FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
 * DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
 * OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
 * LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
 * OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
 * SUCH DAMAGE.
 *
 * The licence and distribution terms for any publically available version or
 * derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot simply be
 * copied and put under another distribution licence
 * [including the GNU Public Licence.]


Original SSLeay License
-----------------------

/Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)
All rights reserved.

This package is an SSL implementation written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).
The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL.

This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions apply to all code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA,  lhash, DES, etc., code; not just the SSL code.  The SSL documentation included with this distribution is covered by the same copyright terms except that the holder is Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).

Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in the code are not to be removed.
If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given attribution as the author of the parts of the library used. 
This can be in the form of a textual message at program startup or in documentation (online or textual) provided with the package.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgement:
"This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)"
The word 'cryptographic' can be left out if the rouines from the library being used are not cryptographic related :-).
4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from the apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement:
 "This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

The licence and distribution terms for any publically available version or derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot simply be copied and put under another distribution licence  [including the GNU Public Licence.]

================================================================================
PCSC Lite License

Copyright (c) 1999-2003 David Corcoran <corcoran@linuxnet.com>
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

Changes to this license can be made only by the copyright author with explicit written consent.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

================================================================================
JXCore License

JXcore's license;

Copyright Nubisa, Inc. and JXcore contributors. All rights reserved.
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

====
OTHER LICENSES
====

- Node's license;

Copyright Joyent, Inc. and other Node contributors. All rights reserved. Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

- Chakra Support shares codes from Microsoft's NodeCH work;


Copyright Microsoft. All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.


- SpiderMonkey license;

Please see the file toolkit/content/license.html for the copyright licensing conditions attached to this codebase, including copies of the licenses concerned.
You are not granted rights or licenses to the trademarks of the Mozilla Foundation or any party, including without limitation the Firefox name or logo.
For more information, see: <http://www.mozilla.org/foundation/licensing.html>
V8, located at deps/v8. V8's license follows:
This license applies to all parts of V8 that are not externally maintained libraries. The externally maintained libraries used by V8 are:
PCRE test suite, located in test/mjsunit/third_party/regexp-pcre.js. This is based on the test suite from PCRE-7.3, which is copyrighted by the University of Cambridge and Google, Inc. The copyright notice and license are embedded in regexp-pcre.js.
Layout tests, located in test/mjsunit/third_party. These are based on layout tests from webkit.org which are copyrighted by Apple Computer, Inc. and released under a 3-clause BSD license.
Strongtalk assembler, the basis of the files assembler-arm-inl.h, assembler-arm.cc, assembler-arm.h, assembler-ia32-inl.h, assembler-ia32.cc, assembler-ia32.h, assembler-x64-inl.h, assembler-x64.cc, assembler-x64.h, assembler-mips-inl.h, assembler-mips.cc, assembler-mips.h, assembler.cc and assembler.h.
This code is copyrighted by Sun Microsystems Inc. and released under a 3-clause BSD license.
Valgrind client API header, located at third_party/valgrind/valgrind.h This is release under the BSD license.
These libraries have their own licenses; we recommend you read them, as their terms may differ from the terms below.
Copyright 2006-2012, the V8 project authors. All rights reserved.
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 
disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

C-Ares, an asynchronous DNS client, located at deps/cares. C-Ares license follows:

Copyright 1998 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of M.I.T. not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written prior permission.
M.I.T. makes no representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.

- OpenSSL located at deps/openssl. OpenSSL is cryptographic software written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com) to provide SSL/TLS encryption. OpenSSL's license follows:

 ====================================================================
Copyright (c) 1998-2011 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must display the following acknowledgment:
"This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"

4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without prior written permission. For written permission, please contact openssl-core@openssl.org.

5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL" nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written permission of the OpenSSL Project.

6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following acknowledgment:
 "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
 ====================================================================

This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).  This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).

- HTTP Parser, located at deps/http_parser. HTTP Parser's license follows:

http_parser.c is based on src/http/ngx_http_parse.c from NGINX copyright Igor Sysoev.

Additional changes are licensed under the same terms as NGINX and copyright Joyent, Inc. and other Node contributors. All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
- Closure Linter is located at tools/closure_linter. Closure's license follows:

Copyright (c) 2007, Google Inc.
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS  "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,  SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,  DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

tools/cpplint.py is a C++ linter. Its license follows:

Copyright (c) 2009 Google Inc. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,  SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

- lib/punycode.js is copyright 2011 Mathias Bynens <<http://mathiasbynens.be/>> and released under the MIT license.

Punycode.js <<http://mths.be/punycode>>
Copyright 2011 Mathias Bynens <<http://mathiasbynens.be/>>
Available under MIT license <<http://mths.be/mit>> - tools/gyp. GYP is a meta-build system. GYP's license follows:
Copyright (c) 2009 Google Inc. All rights reserved.
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
- Zlib at deps/zlib. zlib's license follows:

zlib.h -- interface of the 'zlib' general purpose compression library version 1.2.4, March 14th, 2010
Copyright (C) 1995-2010 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler
This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty. In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of this software.
Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to the following restrictions:
1.	The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated but is not required.
2.	Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be misrepresented as being the original software.
3.	This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.
Jean-loup Gailly Mark Adler
Zlib at deps/zlib. zlib's license follows:

zlib.h -- interface of the 'zlib' general purpose compression library
version 1.2.4, March 14th, 2010

Copyright (C) 1995-2010 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of this software.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to the following restrictions:

1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated but is not required.
2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be misrepresented as being the original software.
3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

Jean-loup Gailly
Mark Adler

- JXString, EngineLogger

Copyright (c) 2014, Oguz Bastemur (oguz@bastemur.com)

Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

- npm is a package manager program located at deps/npm.
npm's license follows:

Copyright (c) Isaac Z. Schlueter
All rights reserved.

npm is released under the Artistic 2.0 License.
The text of the License follows:

The Artistic License 2.0

Copyright (c) 2000-2006, The Perl Foundation.

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.
Preamble
This license establishes the terms under which a given free software Package may be copied, modified, distributed, and/or redistributed.
The intent is that the Copyright Holder maintains some artistic control over the development of that Package while still keeping the Package available as open source and free software.
You are always permitted to make arrangements wholly outside of this license directly with the Copyright Holder of a given Package. If the terms of this license do not permit the full use that you propose to make of the Package, you should contact the Copyright Holder and seek a different licensing arrangement.
Definitions
"Copyright Holder" means the individual(s) or organization(s) named in the copyright notice for the entire Package.
"Contributor" means any party that has contributed code or other material to the Package, in accordance with the Copyright Holder's procedures.
"You" and "your" means any person who would like to copy, distribute, or modify the Package.
"Package" means the collection of files distributed by the Copyright Holder, and derivatives of that collection

"Package" means the collection of files distributed by the Copyright Holder, and derivatives of that collection and/or of those files. A given Package may consist of either the Standard Version, or a Modified Version.
"Distribute" means providing a copy of the Package or making it accessible to anyone else, or in the case of a company or organization, to others outside of your company or organization.
"Distributor Fee" means any fee that you charge for Distributing this Package or providing support for this Package to another party. It does not mean licensing fees.
"Standard Version" refers to the Package if it has not been modified, or has been modified only in ways explicitly requested by the Copyright Holder.
"Modified Version" means the Package, if it has been changed, and such changes were not explicitly requested by the Copyright Holder.
"Original License" means this Artistic License as Distributed with the Standard Version of the Package, in its current version or as it may be modified by The Perl Foundation in the future.
"Source" form means the source code, documentation source, and configuration files for the Package.
"Compiled" form means the compiled bytecode, object code, binary, or any other form resulting from mechanical transformation or translation of the Source form.
Permission for Use and Modification Without Distribution
(1)	You are permitted to use the Standard Version and create and use Modified Versions for any purpose without restriction, provided that you do not Distribute the Modified Version. Permissions for Redistribution of the Standard Version
(2)	You may Distribute verbatim copies of the Source form of the Standard Version of this Package in any medium without restriction, either gratis or for a Distributor Fee, provided that you duplicate
all of the original copyright notices and associated disclaimers. At your discretion, such verbatim copies may or may not include a Compiled form of the Package.
(3)	You may apply any bug fixes, portability changes, and other modifications made available from the Copyright Holder. The resulting Package will still be considered the Standard Version, and as such
will be subject to the Original License.
Distribution of Modified Versions of the Package as Source
(4)	You may Distribute your Modified Version as Source (either gratis or for a Distributor Fee, and with or without a Compiled form of the Modified Version) provided that you clearly document how it differs from the Standard Version, including, but not limited to, documenting any non-standard features, executables, or modules, and provided that you do at least ONE of the following:
(a)	make the Modified Version available to the Copyright Holder of the Standard Version, under the Original License, so that the Copyright Holder may include your modifications in the Standard Version.
(b)	ensure that installation of your Modified Version does not prevent the user installing or running the Standard Version. In addition, the Modified Version must bear a name that is different from the name of the Standard Version.
(c)	allow anyone who receives a copy of the Modified Version to make the Source form of the Modified Version available to others under
(i)	the Original License or
(ii)	a license that permits the licensee to freely copy, modify and redistribute the Modified Version using the same licensing terms that apply to the copy that the licensee received, and requires that the Source form of the Modified Version, and of any works derived from it, be made freely available in that license fees are prohibited but Distributor Fees are allowed.


Distribution of Compiled Forms of the Standard Version or Modified Versions without the Source

(5)	You may Distribute Compiled forms of the Standard Version without the Source, provided that you include complete instructions on how to get the Source of the Standard Version. Such instructions must be valid at the time of your distribution. If these instructions, at any
time while you are carrying out such distribution, become invalid, you must provide new instructions on demand or cease further distribution. If you provide valid instructions or cease distribution within thirty days after you become aware that the instructions are invalid, then you do not forfeit any of your rights under this license.
(6)	You may Distribute a Modified Version in Compiled form without the Source, provided that you comply with Section 4 with respect to the Source of the Modified Version.
Aggregating or Linking the Package
(7)	You may aggregate the Package (either the Standard Version or Modified Version) with other packages and Distribute the resulting aggregation provided that you do not charge a licensing fee for the Package. Distributor Fees are permitted, and licensing fees for other components in the aggregation are permitted. The terms of this license apply to the use and Distribution of the Standard or Modified Versions as included in the aggregation.
(8)	You are permitted to link Modified and Standard Versions with other works, to embed the Package in a larger work of your own, or to build stand-alone binary or bytecode versions of applications that include the Package, and Distribute the result without restriction, provided the result does not expose a direct interface to the Package.
Items That are Not Considered Part of a Modified Version
(9)	Works (including, but not limited to, modules and scripts) that merely extend or make use of the Package, do not, by themselves, cause the Package to be a Modified Version. In addition, such works are not considered parts of the Package itself, and are not subject to the terms of this license.
General Provisions
(10)	Any use, modification, and distribution of the Standard or Modified Versions is governed by this Artistic License. By using, modifying or distributing the Package, you accept this license. Do not use, modify, or distribute the Package, if you do not accept this license.

(11)	If your Modified Version has been derived from a Modified Version made by someone other than you, you are nevertheless required to ensure that your Modified Version complies with the requirements of this license.
(12)	This license does not grant you the right to use any trademark, service mark, tradename, or logo of the Copyright Holder.
(13)	This license includes the non-exclusive, worldwide, free-of-charge patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import and otherwise transfer the Package with respect to any patent claims licensable by the Copyright Holder that are necessarily infringed by the Package. If you institute patent litigation (including a cross-claim or counterclaim) against any party alleging that the Package constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then this Artistic License to you shall terminate on the date that such litigation is filed.
(14)	Disclaimer of Warranty:
THE PACKAGE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES. THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT ARE DISCLAIMED TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY YOUR LOCAL LAW. UNLESS REQUIRED BY LAW, NO COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTOR WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THE PACKAGE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

"Node.js" and "node" trademark Joyent, Inc. npm is not officially part of the Node.js project, and is neither owned by nor officially affiliated with Joyent, Inc.
Packages published in the npm registry (other than the Software and its included dependencies) are not part of npm itself, are the sole property of their respective maintainers, and are not covered by this license.
"npm Logo" created by Mathias Pettersson and Brian Hammond, used with permission.
"Gubblebum Blocky" font
Copyright (c) by Tjarda Koster, <http://jelloween.deviantart.com> included for use in the npm website and documentation, used with permission.
This program uses several Node modules contained in the node_modules/ subdirectory, according to the terms of their respective licenses.


- tools/doc/node_modules/marked. Marked is a Markdown parser. Marked's license follows:

Copyright (c) 2011-2012, Christopher Jeffrey (<https://github.com/chjj/>)
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
-	queue.h
-	test/gc/node_modules/weak. Node-weak is a node.js addon that provides garbage collector notifications. Node-weak's license follows:

Copyright (c) 2011, Ben Noordhuis <info@bnoordhuis.nl <mailto:info@bnoordhuis.nl>>
Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
- wrk is located at tools/wrk. wrk's license follows:

Apache License
Version 2.0, January 2004
http://www.apache.org/licenses/

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION
1.	Definitions.
"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.
"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the copyright owner that is granting the License.
"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
"control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.
"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising permissions granted by this License.
"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, including but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and configuration files.
"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.
"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the Appendix below).
"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.
"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted" means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently incorporated within the Work.

2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.
2.	
3.	Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.
4.	Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions:
(a)	You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy of this License; and
(b)	You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that You changed the files; and
(c)	You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
the Derivative Works; and
(d)	If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as modifying the License.
You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in this License.
5.	Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions.
6.	Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.
7.	Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.
8.	Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility of such damages.
9.	Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

- cpp btree's license follows:

Apache License
Version 2.0, January 2004
http://www.apache.org/licenses/

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

1.	Definitions.
"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.
"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the copyright owner that is granting the License.
"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
"control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.
"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising permissions granted by this License.
"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
including but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and configuration files.
"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.
"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the Appendix below).
"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.
"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted" means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."
"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently incorporated within the Work.
2.	Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.
3.	Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.
4.	Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions:
(a)	You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy of this License; and
(b)	You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that You changed the files; and
(c)	You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
the Derivative Works; and
(d)	If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as modifying the License.
You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in this License. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions.
5.	Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.
6.	Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.
7.	Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility of such damages.
8.	Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.
END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS
APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.
To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include the brackets!) The text should be enclosed in the appropriate comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a file or class name and description of purpose be included on the same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier identification within third-party archives.
Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at
<http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
- commonjs-ansi-color's license follows:

Copyright (c) 2010 James Smith <james@loopj.com <mailto:james@loopj.com>> All rights reserved.
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
1.	Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2.	Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3.	The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ''AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE

- windows posix threads license

Posix Threads library for Microsoft Windows

 Use at own risk, there is no implied warranty to this code. It uses undocumented features of Microsoft Windows that can change at any time in the future.

(C) 2010 Lockless Inc.
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Lockless Inc. nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
*
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AN ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

SQLITE

The author disclaims copyright to this source code.  In place of a legal notice, here is a blessing:

May you do good and not evil. May you find forgiveness for yourself and forgive others.
May you share freely, never taking more than you give.

- Node SQLite3 license

Copyright (c) MapBox
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

-Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
-Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
-Neither the name "MapBox" nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE"

- verpatch

The Code Project Open License (CPOL) 1.02 */

- leveldown-mobile

"""
Copyright (c) 2014, Rod Vagg

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
